
# Stuff from RARC E-mail list.

I have a VARIAC with a dim bulb that I can switch in or out. I haven't done much vintage repair, but I recapped a Swan 350 Vac-tube rig once and it "works." I've also mostly recapped an old "Musicaire" 801 radio. At tip is that if the set shows how much Wattage it pulls use a bulb that's higher in wattage than the set. I.E. 35 watts for the set use a 40/60 watt bulb, 100 watts, 150. I you don't find a short in the radio you may need to go down in bulb wattage as the set may not work properly as the bulb is limiting the current to the set and is lowering the voltage.

Just an aside to the convo, something I've seen watching a guy on YouTube (Shango066) a ham from Cali, a lot of his vintage electronics problems aren't always the old electrolytics, often for him it's something else, bad mica caps in the IF cans, shorted tubes, bad transistors, etc, except with certain exceptions (cap from certain eras, manufacturers...) But he noted that that it seems more necessary in electronics that were from the Midwest, probably because it rains more and there's more extreme weather than California has. He doesn't do a lot of restorations on his channel, he does more "resurrections" for edutainment. Just enough to get the TV or radio to play. Often he collects junk, mine, or desert company town found sets and tries to bring them to life for a video to diagnose odd faults, and teaches how to find them. afterwards he probably throws the set out because they wouldn't be a good restoration candidate. 

I've seen a lot of times whatever lubrication was used on older turntables has turned to crud and needs to be cleaned out of the otherwise-fine workings. Pavek Radio Museum in the twin cities used to have vintage radio restoration classes where you bring your unit and they help you restore it (probably not happening due to COVID).

If you want to safely see how (or if) an unknown-condition tube radio works, you can use a variac (variable transformer) to slowly step up the AC voltage and potentially ease electrolytic caps back into a working state and suss out any issues without the risk of major catastrophe (whereas if you just plug it in and turn it on, things might get exciting).

In my experience, issues with vintage equipment almost always comes down to electrolytic capacitors. Fortunately these are usually really easy radios to work on as far as soldering goes, and modern capacitors are far more stable and far smaller (and cheaper) than the big cans from the 50s, if you don't mind a few modern components in an otherwise vintage radio. The other common issues I've seen are corrosion on contacts making noise or bad connections, and mechanical problems with the Rube Goldberg tuning dial setups often used (with dried-out lubrication very common there also).

I know I can't be the only one with a tube tester in the club, and although I don't personally have a variac I know where one might be borrowed from.
